To put ourselves in a position,
we have, we are capturing leads and
our goal is to convert those leads
into sales, optimize the
conversion ratio.
One of the main tools or
strategies you need
to know is lead nurturing.
What is Lead Nurturing?
Because it is the set, as
we said, of tactics, of
tools that are aimed at we will
go to feed or nourish those leads
with the aim of turning
them into sales.
What we will do is, automatically,
we will establish a value
relationship with those leads
and we will push them or we
will help them go down
the funnel until they become
customers or sales.
What are the benefits or benefits
of lead nurturing?
Why is it so important to work on it?
One, it's very obvious because it helps
us optimize conversions.
We have spent money on generating
traffic, we have managed to convert
leads, what happens is that leads
in a very high percentage are
still not willing to buy and we
have to manage that relationship
with the aim of increasing
the ROI.
Benefit number two, and it's something
I want you to understand and it's
that lead nurturing by being
automated is scalable.
We'll think that instead of doing
a good lead nurturing what
we have is a team of
marketers managing that funnel.
If we grow, we need to
hire more people.
What is the case with lead nurturing?
If we are automated, the
cost does not increase.
It may increase a little because
we'll have to pay more license
for the software tool we
use, but it's ultra-scalable,
mainly because of the concept
that it's automated.
Look at it, it's a different strategy.
If we rely on advertising
to sell, we have a funnel in
which only a number of leads
can enter that we can
manage with the advertising.
If we grow, we will have to
hire more people.
This is different, because by being
automated, by not generating additional
marginal costs, what we do is
like throwing the net and fishing
everything we can.
And of that, that we fish, there
will be a percentage that ends
up becoming sales, simply
because we have automated
a process, a relationship
with them.
You probably already know
what the benefits are.
And now what I want is that
you know in general how this
is done.
If you want to implement a
lead nurturing strategy, what
do you need to do?
First, we need
a software tool.
Why is it?
Because, as I said, this is automatic
and in addition it is that a lot
of information, many contacts,
many customers, etc. are generated.
We need software.
What kind of software?
Well, because you are worth a
CRM, CRMs have the possibility
to automate this type of actions
and what has grown in recent years
are tools that are called
marketing automation.
ActiCampaign, for example, which
is the one we use, or as HubSpot
or as Marketo, are tools that
incorporate this type of
automated processes and also
a CRM.
They are tools that are paid in
the format software as a service,
which what you do is pay every
month a fee.
And you will pay fees based on
the size of your business,
the number of emails you are
sending, the number of records
you are incorporating, etc.
But let's, they are relatively
affordable tools that you
can go and try, etc.
We already have the tool.
What we need to do now is to configure it.
We need to set up a flow of contacts.
They are mainly emails.
Basically, marketing automation
or lead nurturing has almost
always been based primarily
on sending emails.
Well, this is the next step.
We have to define that flow.
These are the emails we will send.
What kind of emails, to whom,
at what time, etc.
We have all this in the tool.
Point number three.
Well, but what kind of content are we
going to send?
What kind of emails will we send?
There are different types of
them, and we will give you some
examples that we use.
One of the main or most important
factors in lead nurturing
is that you permanently
deliver value.
Uninterested value to your leads.
For example, we are
sending out free classes.
We are constantly sending classes.
There are also emails in which
we do is inform the leads
of our product.
We are selling ourselves.
There are more, but
more emails.
And we have several emails
that are not very direct,
but that in the end what
we are doing is to sell
our product, sell us.
And we also have to have
closing email contacts.
This is very important.
You have to deliver value, you have
to convince, but at some point
you have to encourage your customer
to make the decision.
And, for example, we have emails
in which we report the dates of
the next edition and we put, for
example, videos with students'
testimonies, which is a good
argument to convince.
Another point to bear in mind,
point four, is that all those
contents have to be adapted.
They must be adapted according
to different factors.
One of these is called lead
scoring.
Basically, leads are not all
on the same point.
There are leads that are more
qualified and there are leads that
are less qualified.
Depending on the situation, you will
have to send a message or a message.
I will give you an example.
We and all companies capture
leads in different ways.
In this case, I will tell you two strategies.
One, which is more punctual, is
a lead magnet strategy.
A great leads.
What we did was share and
we captured, because that, there
have been hundreds of comments,
I don't know if hundreds of
leads, etc.
of barbarity.
But is this people who have left
us the data, think, a highly qualified
lead or a poorly qualified lead?
It is a poorly qualified lead.
Why is it?
Because he has left you the data because
he wants it, the only thing he wants at
this point is that you deliver
value to him.
But he is not leaving you the data because
he is already interested in your proposal.
Instead, when we capture
leads on the website, where
call to action is free,
three classes free, etc.,
they are more qualified
leads.
Because you have in mind that they are
leaving us the data because they
already know our proposal and have
some interest.
Therefore, we can draw a funnel
in which we classify the leads in
which they are leads, for example,
from someone who has subscribed
to a newsletter, who has subscribed,
who has left you the data because
he wants you to deliver
a free ebook or a lead
magnet, etc.
And below we have leads that are
more qualified because, well, because
they have already shown that they
have some interest in your proposal.
And when someone leaves us the
data on the web page because he
wants three classes for free, it is
that he understands Power MBA and is
a more qualified lead than if
he only wanted us to tell him the
ten keys to being a good entrepreneur,
for example.
Therefore, the conclusion is that you
have to adapt those messages according
to the phase in which the lead
is, which is the lead scoring.
I will give you two more advice.
The following is that the messages
we send, the contents,
etc., must be adapted
also in a very personal way.
And how can we do this?
We can adapt them according
to the concrete interactions
that this lead has had
with us.
This is sometimes called direct response
marketing.
I'll give you an example that
you will understand very
well.
We send you three
free leads today.
Well, we analyze, it does the tool
itself according to whether the
lead has opened or not one class
or another, we send emails
adapted to them, we know that you
only saw the first of the classes,
or we know that you saw
the first two, you lost this.
It is an example that we have to
customize not only for the
moment in which it is, but we
have to customize according
to what has done that lead
specifically.
And the last of the tips is that
lead nurturing, in principle we
are talking about email
marketing, is a flow of emails,
but you really have to open a
little mind and you have to do, you
have to have a broader conversion
strategy.
We have to coordinate this with,
we can reinforce it with retargeting
in different channels, that you
will be re-appearing ads in social
networks or in display in media,
or we can do, for example,
we can do tele marketing
in some cases to accompany that
lead, or we should,
if there is a sales department
should be very coordinated
all this, lead nurturing,
marketing automation with
the sales department.
To get you in the moment
we identify, imagine that one
of our leads has opened,
is opening a percentage, opens
the emails or clicks within
the emails we are sending you,
because at that time we can
consider that it is a very
hot lead and it is a good
time for it to go to sales.
We will give you a brief overview
of how to implement a good
lead nurturing strategy.
First, we need a tool.
There are several tools on the
market and they are also easy to hire.
Second, you have to define the
flow of emails, contacts,
the different touch points you
will have with customers, that
you can condition them
according to a lot of
things, define the time in
which they are sent, to whom,
what messages, etc.
We have to work on the different
emails we will send and we have
seen that we can send emails
creating value to foster a good
relationship, emails in which
we reinforce or are selling
our product and also we have
to send at some point emails
aimed at closing.
In addition, what you need to keep
in mind is that those emails
that we send have to be
conditioned according to different
factors.
One of them is what we call lead
scoring, that is, leads are
not all at the same time.
Depending on, for example, how they
have come to us, whether they know
us or don't know us, etc.,
because it will make sense to
send them a type of message or others.
If the lead has left us the data because
we have offered you value content that
is interesting to you but
does not know us, because we will
have to send you emails talking
to you about our proposal.
In contrast, if it turns out that the lead
has left us their data because he wants
a free trial or something like that,
he already knows us, we will have to
be one we can go maybe already
to offer him the closure, that is,
to motivate him to buy.
In addition, another tip is that
conversions will increase a lot
if we are able to send emails very
personal and very adapted
to interactions he has had, whether
he has opened the emails
or not, when he has opened
them, etc.
And finally, keep in mind that lead
nurturing is an excellent strategy
but we have to combine it
or we can combine it with another
type of channels, because like
social networks, like network
targeting and with telemarketing
or, for example, if we have
a sales department has to be
absolutely coordinated
the moment in which those
leads go to sales.